recorded queries/documentation (#41714)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/enterprise/recorded-queries.md

+++
title = "Recorded queries"
description = "Grafana Enterprise recorded queries"
keywords = ["grafana", "query", "queries", "recorded"]
weight = 300
+++

# Recorded queries

Recorded queries allow you to see trends over time by taking a snapshot of a data point on a set interval. This can give you insight into historic trends.

For our plugins that do not return time series, it might be useful to plot historical data. For example, you might want to query ServiceNow to see a history of request response times but it can only return current point-in-time metrics.

## How recorded queries work

> ### Note: An administrator must configure a Prometheus datasource and associate it with a [Remote write target](#remote-write-target) before recorded queries can be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**> Note:** An administrator must configure a Prometheus data source and associate it with a [Remote write target](#remote-write-target) before recorded queries can be used.
```

> Recorded queries only work with backend data source plugins. You can recorded three types of queries:

Reviewer 2: will users know how to identify backend data sources, or is that a concept that is only exposed to plugin devs?

- single row and column - A query that returns a single row and column.
- row count - A query that returns meaningful rows to be counted.
- expression - Any expression. To learn more about creating and using expressions, see [Expressions](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/panels/expressions/).

After a recorded query is created or enabled, it immediately creates a snapshot and continues to create snapshots at the set interval. The recorded query stops taking snapshots when it is disabled, deleted, or when Grafana is not running. Data points are gathered in the backend by running the recorded query and forwarding each result to a remote-write enabled Prometheus instance.

## Using a recorded query

> To use a recorded query you’ll need to create one and add it to a dashboard. After that, it can be managed in **Preferences** from the **Recorded queries** tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use a recorded query, create one and add it to a dashboard. After that, it can be managed in **Preferences** from the **Recorded queries** tab.
```

### Create a recorded query

1.  Find/create a query you want to record on a dashboard in an edit panel. The query must only return one row and column. If it returns more, you can still record the number of results returned using the “count” option.
    - The query's data source must be a backend data source.
    - Expressions can be used to aggregate data from a time series query. Refer to [Expressions](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/panels/expressions/) to learn more about creating and using expressions.
1.  Click the record query button located in the top right of the query editor.
1.  Enter recorded query information. All fields are required unless otherwise indicated.
    - Name - Name of the recorded query.
    - Description - (optional) Describe the recorded query as you want it to appear in the recorded query list.

>     - Interval - The interval on which the snapshot will be taken. The interval starts when you create the recorded query and will stop if you pause or delete the recorded query. Refer to [Managing recorded queries](#manage-recorded-queries) for more information on pausing and deleting recorded queries.

Reviewer 2: what happens if a query takes longer than the interval? it seems like maybe golang will wait until the next closet interval to run the query. does that sound right?

Reviewer 2: @bossinc and i tested, and it seems like this is an edge case, but the behavior is intuitive so it should not require additional info here
